---
author: Mackenzie Brooks
title: DH 180 // day two
date: January 11, 2018
---

# day 1 recap

# day 1 recap
* html + css
* computers are dumb
* your browser can open files on your computer

# discussion contract

# discussion contract
Think of your best group discussion experience. What made it great? Jot it down.

# discussion contract
Think of the worst group discussion experience? What made it bad? Jot it down.

# discussion contract
Form a group. Share your experiences with each other, then form a list of the positive and negative qualities of discussion. 

# discussion contract
For each quality, identify specific actions to encourage
 or prevent these qualities. Add the actions to the Boxnote in ```Box > docs-dh180 > Discussion Charter```.

# Rumsey, pg 6
> What would my successor show in 200 years years' time - or even 50 years? How would people feel that distinctive visceral connection with people from the past if the past had no undeniable physical presence?

# Rumsey, pg 7
> How are we to keep from being drowned in the data deluge?

# two misconceptions

# first misconception
That "today's abundance is a new phenomeon"

# second misconception
"Our antiquated view of memory itself"

# Hypothesis 
1. Create an [account](https://web.hypothes.is/start/).
2. Join [group](https://hypothes.is/groups/6eZL1JYV/dh180-w18)
3. Install browser [bookmarklet](https://web.hypothes.is/start/).
4. Open [document](https://mfr.osf.io/render?url=https%3A%2F%2Ffiles.osf.io%2Fv1%2Fresources%2Fu9kc2%2Fproviders%2Fosfstorage%2F596a602f6c613b022be15cdc%3Fdirect%26mode%3Drender%26initialWidth%3D766). 

# Owens's 16 axioms
1. Claim your axiom by commenting on the bold text.
2. Interrogate your axiom. What don't you understand? Annotate with questions.

# Owens's 3 frames
1. Divide into groups of three. 
2. Each team member gets a frame: artifactual, informational, folkloric. You're responsible for interpreting your frame for the rest of your group.
3. Read your section. Discuss. Come up with alternate examples.
4. Add to your website? 

# For Tuesday:
* readings are in order of importance

