---
author: Mackenzie Brooks
title: DH 180 // day three
date: January 16, 2018
---

# announcements
* office hours:  Wed 4-5pm, Thurs 2-3pm
* paper 1 due in one week!

# themes today
* record keeping
* collective memory
* record creating
* big data problems
* liquid communication
* human memory
* archival silences

# Graham, Milligan, Weingart
* The impact of Big Data or "Digital Turn" on historians' practice. 

# Rumsey
> Culture is far more efficient than biology. (23)

# Rumsey
> Culture mediates all of our experiences simply by providing each of us the basic template or mental model by which we interpret the world. (25)

# Theimer
> Easy access to technology has given people across the world many more opportunities to document themselves, and to share that information with others, than ever before.

# Theimer
> Social media, or liquid communication, gives people a platform to share information about everyday events, and ones of historic importance as well, and consequently the question of how to best preserve those records has been an issue of archival concern for some time. 

# Sauter
> Digital reminiscence systems require the creation of digital memory objects, and prod us algorithmically to create specific kinds of digital memory objects, those that are algorithmically recognizable and categorizable, as part of their functionality.

# Haskins
* official memory vs. vernacular 
* digital can bring "patchwork of public memory"


# 9/11 and the Vernacular Web
[http://blog.geocities.institute/archives/5983](http://blog.geocities.institute/archives/5983)

# activity 1
1. Find a scholarly work by your favorite scholar. 
2. Examine the bibliography. What sources do they use?
3. Analyze those sources. Where did they come from? What form do they take? How are they accessible? 
4. Digital sources. Do the links works? Held by commercial or nonprofit?
5. Physical sources. Where are they? Widely held by libraries? Easily purchased?

# activity 2
1. Start exploring one of the digital archives mentioned in our readings (GeoCities, 9/11). 
2. What do you notice? What type of material? 
3. Who are the authors? Who is the audience?  
4. How is the 1990-2000s web different than today?

